README.md, before:

# chapter-components

> Repo: [https://gitlab.ny.rga.com/samsung-within/chapter-components](https://gitlab.ny.rga.com/samsung-within/chapter-components)

A monorepo of UI components common to all Samsung Within projects.

[![lerna](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg)](https://lernajs.io/)

## Overview:

Chapter-components are React components designed for Samsung Within projects. The components are managed via a Yarn Workspaces/Lerna monorepo, and are published to our private npm server as individual packages. They can be imported into Samsung Within projects as needed.

### Tech Stack

### Core

- **Environment:** Node 10.x
- **Package Management:** Yarn > 1.7.x, Yarn Workspaces, Lerna
- **Framework:** React 16.6.x

### Tools

- **CSS:** Sass and CSS Modules
- **Transpilation:** Babel 7
- **Dev:** Storybook
- **Build:** Webpack 4 & Babel 7
- **Linting:** [ESLint](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations), [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html), Stylelint and [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/#download).\*
- **Testing:** TBD

\*It is strongly recommended that you integrate these tools into your editor or IDE.

## Development:

This monorepo uses Yarn Workspaces and Lerna, which automatically symlinks local dependencies to their respective packages. This allows you to work on packages and their dependencies without manually symlinking.

### Initial Repo Setup:

- Clone this repo:

```shell
git clone git@gitlab.ny.rga.com:samsung-within/chapter-components.git
```

- Ensure your node environment is up to date. [Download the latest](https://nodejs.org/en/), or use nvm to manage environments.
- If you don't have yarn, install it. (If you're a Windows user, [download the installer](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#windows-stable).)

```shell
brew install yarn
```

- Install dependencies via Yarn. Because we use Yarn Workspaces, this command will also hoist dependencies to the root `node_modules` folder, and symlink accordingly. **You should not use npm to install dependencies.**

```shell
yarn
```

- Run the lerna build command to build each package's dist folder:

```shell
yarn lerna-build
```

### Working With Existing Packages

- Run the storybook tool command:

```shell
yarn run storybook
```

This creates a UI development environment. The tool enables us to create components independently and showcase components interactively in an isolated development environment. Each package has a `*.storybook.js` file that is automatically discovered and loaded into the development environment.

Learn more by reading the [Storybook documentation](https://storybook.js.org/basics/guide-react/).

- Create a branch according to the [Gitflow Workflow guidelines](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow).

### Merging Properly:

After your merge request has been reviewed and approved, use the following steps to publish new versions of the packages.

- After approval, `git pull` on the master branch, checkout your branch, and rebase on master.

```shel
git pull --rebase origin master
```

> Why perform a rebase, and not a merge? Read this ["Merging vs. Rebasing"](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing) article for more information.

- Handle any issue surfaced during your rebase, then merge your feature branch into master.

```shell
git checkout master
git pull
git pull origin your-feature
git push
```

- Do a pull to ensure you have the absolute latest code and tags. Lerna needs to know what the latest published versions are in order to determine what has changed and what the new versions should be.

```shell
git pull origin master --tags
```

- Run the Lerna update command. This tells you which packages have changed since your merge. Ensure that any updated packages are working properly.

```shell
yarn lerna-updated
```

- Run the Lerna version command. This prompts you to update the version any packages that have changed. For most changes, a PATCH update is what you want. (Check out the [Semantic Versioning docs](https://semver.org/) to learn when to use each version type.)

```shell
yarn lerna-version
```

- If this command runs successfully, it will also perform a PATCH update on the mono repo itself, then push the updated code and tags to origin. This triggers the CI to publish the updated packages to our private npm server.

Commit message:

add create script, update README

README.md, after:

# chapter-components

> Repo: [https://gitlab.ny.rga.com/samsung-within/chapter-components](https://gitlab.ny.rga.com/samsung-within/chapter-components)

A monorepo of UI components common to all Samsung Within projects.

[![lerna](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg)](https://lernajs.io/)

## Overview:

Chapter-components are React components designed for Samsung Within projects. The components are managed via a Yarn Workspaces/Lerna monorepo, and are published to our private npm server as individual packages. They can be imported into Samsung Within projects as needed.

### Tech Stack

### Core

- **Environment:** Node 10.x
- **Package Management:** Yarn\* > 1.7.x, Yarn Workspaces, Lerna
- **Framework:** React 16.6.x

> \*Why Yarn, and not NPM? The main reason is to utilize [Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/). Additionally, Yarn tends to be faster, better at producing deterministic dependency trees, and to have better caching.

### Tools

- **CSS:** Sass and CSS Modules
- **Transpilation:** Babel 7
- **Dev:** Storybook
- **Build:** Webpack 4 & Babel 7
- **Linting:** [ESLint](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations), [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html), Stylelint and [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/#download).\*
- **Testing:** TBD

> \*It is strongly recommended that you integrate these tools into your editor or IDE.

## Development:

This monorepo uses Yarn Workspaces and Lerna, which automatically symlinks local dependencies to their respective packages. This allows you to work on packages and their dependencies without manually symlinking.

### Initial Repo Setup:

- Clone this repo:

```shell
git clone git@gitlab.ny.rga.com:samsung-within/chapter-components.git
```

- Ensure your node environment is up to date. [Download the latest](https://nodejs.org/en/), or use nvm to manage environments.
- If you don't have yarn, install it. (If you're a Windows user, [download the installer](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#windows-stable).)

```shell
brew install yarn
```

- Install dependencies via Yarn. Because we use Yarn Workspaces, this command will also hoist dependencies to the root `node_modules` folder, and symlink accordingly. **You should not use npm to install dependencies.**

```shell
yarn
```

- Run the lerna build command to build each package's dist folder:

```shell
yarn lerna-build
```

### Working With Existing Packages

- Run the storybook tool command:

```shell
yarn run storybook
```

This creates a UI development environment. The tool enables us to create components independently and showcase components interactively in an isolated development environment. Each package has a `*.storybook.js` file that is automatically discovered and loaded into the development environment.

Learn more by reading the [Storybook documentation](https://storybook.js.org/basics/guide-react/).

- Create a branch according to the [Gitflow Workflow guidelines](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow).

### Merging Properly:

After your merge request has been reviewed and approved, use the following steps to publish new versions of the packages.

- After approval, `git pull` on the master branch, checkout your branch, and rebase\* on master.

```shell
git pull --rebase origin master
```

> \* Why perform a rebase, and not a merge? Read this ["Merging vs. Rebasing"](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing) article for more information.

- Handle any issue surfaced during your rebase, then merge your feature branch into master.

```shell
git checkout master
git pull
git pull origin your-feature
git push
```

- Do a pull to ensure you have the absolute latest code and tags. Lerna needs to know what the latest published versions are in order to determine what has changed and what the new versions should be.

```shell
git pull origin master --tags
```

- Run the Lerna update command. This tells you which packages have changed since your merge. Ensure that any updated packages are working properly.

```shell
yarn lerna-updated
```

- Run the Lerna version command. This prompts you to update the version any packages that have changed. For most changes, a PATCH update is what you want. (Check out the [Semantic Versioning docs](https://semver.org/) to learn when to use each version type.)

```shell
yarn lerna-version
```

- If this command runs successfully, it will also perform a PATCH update on the mono repo itself, then push the updated code and tags to origin. This triggers the CI to publish the updated packages to our private npm server.

### Creating a New Package

To create a new package, run the following command:

```shell
yarn create-package
```

Enter the required info and a set of boilerplate files will be created.
